DOCS-7781-applied template (#232)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/basic-authentication-ldap-concept.adoc

|===
>s| Policy Name | Basic Authentication: LDAP
>s|Summary      | Allows access based on the basic authorization mechanism, with user-password defined on LDAP
>s|Category | Security
>s|First Mule version available | 4.0.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
|401 - Unauthorized or invalid client application credentials
|===

> The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) authentication policy specifies how an API with an Open LDAP or Active Directory LDAP mechanism must be authenticated. This policy is available only in Mule 4 or later. 

Reviewer: "The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) authentication policy specifies how an API with an Open LDAP or Active Directory LDAP mechanism must be authenticated" -> "The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) authentication policy specifies how to restrict access to an API using LDAP authentication mechanism" or similar.

The API does not have the LDAP stuff. The policy calls LDAP to validate the info provided using the Basic Auth mechanism (ie Authorization HTTP header).

Author: Done! Thanks!

> When an error is encountered, the policy returns an "WWW-Authenticate" HTTP header field using the following format:`WWW-Authenticate: Basic realm="mule-realm"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an error is encountered, the policy returns an "WWW-Authenticate" HTTP header field using the format `WWW-Authenticate: Basic realm="mule-realm"`.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== How This Policy Works

> //Nahuel can we explain here briefly how this policy works and then explain to the users how to the search scope works.

Reviewer: The policy intercepts the request to the protected resource and looks for the "Authorization" HTTP header. Then it extracts its associated value which is in fact a username and password encoded in Base64. When that is done, the policy requests the configured LDAP instance to determine if the user/password are correct in the provided LDAP context1. You have two ways of doing this:
- Look for valid user/password pair in the level specified
- Look for valid user/password pair in the level specified or below (comprehensive but much slower)

1: LDAP is kind of inverted tree, where each leave is essentially a username/password pair with some associated metadata. Each level is like a tree branch. Explaining what LDAP is and how it works is out of the scope for this document. More info on: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_Directory_Access_Protocol.

Author: Awesome! Thanks Nahuel! Done1

> //Nahuel can we explain here briefly how this policy works and then explain to the users how to the search scope works.

Reviewer 2: Is there no text under this title now?

Author: I just added.

=== Search Scope

> The search scope options differ depending on the policy version:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your search scope options differ depending on your policy version:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * 1.0.0 only has the one-level search scope available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* 1.0.0 provides one search scope.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * 1.1.0 provides two search scopes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* 1.1.0 provides two search scopes. 
```

Reviewer 2: Did you intend to document one and two search scopes, or one and two levels of search scope? Avoid using different wording for peer list elements.
Also, a list really isn't necessary here. This is a simple piece of info that could easily be summarized in a single sentence:
"Your search scope options are one level for LDAP 1.0.0 and two levels (`subtree`) for LDAP 1.2.0."

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
You can choose between `one level` and `subtree` search scopes by using the `LDAP Search in subtree` option.

> === One Level Search Scope

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== One-Level Search Scope
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> With this option, the filter affects only the objects immediately subordinate to the base object, but does not include the base object itself. The 1.0.0 version of this policy has only this search scope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this option, the filter affects only the objects immediately subordinate to the base object, and not the base object itself. 
```
No need to repeat.
In fact, I believe that this topic set could be greatly shortened by omitting repetition: 

There are two versions of <this> policy, which provide you with different levels of <search? filtering? what PRECISELY?>: LDAP (?) 1.0.0, which provides one level, and LDAP 1.1.0, which provides two levels (or a _subtree_).

...then in to the subtopics, which do not need to repeat the scope levels or version numbers.

Author: Yes I think that's how it looks now after the few changes.

> In the following  example, the first level has four entries: two users and two groups. These are the only entries that are a part of any search:

Reviewer 2: Will your audience know what the second sentence means...and does it even need to?

Author: I think so.

image::search-scope.png[]

> If you set the search filter to `(uid={0})`, only `Jane` and `Paul` are found. The group entries are not considered and neither are the other levels.

Reviewer 2: What other levels? Isn't this an example of a single level?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> ==== Subtree search scope

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Subtree Search Scope
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> With this option, the policy examines the subtree below the base DN and also includes the base DN level. Notice that performance is affected by this behavior.

Reviewer 2: Have you here substituted "base DN" for what you previously called the "base object"? 
Do not change terminology within a topic; pick the best term and stick with it.

> Continuing with the previous example, we can see that the analyzed area covers the entire organization. The group and user entries are considered at any level of the organization:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous example, the analyzed area covers the entire organization. The group and user entries are considered at any level of the organization:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

image::search-scope2.png[]

> 

Reviewer 2: Hmm...well, I am not your technical audience, but I don't get how the text for these two examples illustrates one level vs. subtree. Maybe because of the terminology shifting.

Author: Leaving it as is for now.

== Configuring Policy Parameters

> When you apply the policy to your API from the UI, you can configure the following parameters to connect to your LDAP or Active Directory:

Reviewer 2: Clarify "the policy" by naming it explicitly in each new topic.

Reviewer 2: Note another terminology change: intro. uses "parameters" but table column heading uses "element".

Author: Done! Thanks!

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]
|===

> | Element | Description | Required or Optional

Reviewer: I believe all the fields are required.

Author: Yes, I took out the column.

|LDAP Server URL  

> |The URL of your LDAP server, including the port number.

Reviewer: Protocol can be "ldap" or "ldaps".

Author: Done! Thanks!

|Required
|LDAP User DN

> |The name of the user or user group with access to traverse and list users of LDAP.

Reviewer 2: What does "traverse" mean here? Did we use a different word for this in previous text? If so, standardize to one verb for this action throughout.

Author: Traverse is a programming term to move up or down a link list or a search list. I think it is a widely known term. I'll leave it as is.

|Required
|LDAP User Password

> |The password for the user or user group. The password must be a secure value, which once specified is not visible or retrievable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The password for the user or user group. The password must be a secure value that, once specified, is not visible or retrievable.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

|Required
|LDAP Search Base
|The starting point for the search in the directory tree.
|Required
|LDAP Search Filter

> |The criteria for the filter for the Active Directory or the OpenLDAP model, as shown in the examples below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The criteria for the filter for the Active Directory or the OpenLDAP model, as shown in the examples.
```
Or provide internal xrefs

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY search for LDAP and evaluate whether you mean only LDAP or OpenLDAP.

Author: We are good! Thanks! Done!

|Required 

== Example Configuration for an Active Directory

> You can configure Active Directory for your LDAP authentication:

Reviewer 2: ...by providing the following values?

Author: Done! Thanks!

|${ldap.search.filter}
|===

> The search filter string in the example is specific to Active Directory applications.

Reviewer: What about using filter *value* or capitalizing String?

Author: Left it as is. I think it works.

> == Example Configuration for a OpenLDAP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Example Configuration for OpenLDAP
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

|${ldap.search.filter}
|===

The search filter string in the example is specific to OpenLDAP applications.

> == Creating Requests for APIs With LDAP Policies 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Creating Requests for APIs with LDAP Policies 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> After applying the Basic Authentication: LDAP policy to an API, a request to that API must contain the following header:

Reviewer 2: Does this name actually include the colon?

Author: Yes it does! Thanks! Done!

Author: It has a dash in the UI, so I changed it in to a dash in all other places in the topic. Done! Thanks!

----
Authorization: Basic <username:password>
----

> The `username:password` value must be a base64-encoded string. For example on a Mac OS X or Linux system, the username and password requirement is implemented as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `username:password` value must be a Base64-encoded string. For example, on a Mac OS X or Linux system, the username and password requirement is implemented as:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`echo '<Client Id>:<Client Secret>' | base64`

Mule runtime engine (Mule) separates the credentials of the header and sends the request to the LDAP server with the search filter.

> From the `username` and search filter, LDAP finds the registered user and then verifies credentials. Finally, the valid result is returned to Mule:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the `username` and search filter, LDAP finds the registered user and then verifies credentials. The valid result is returned to Mule:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

image::ldap-verification.png[height=358,width=488]

> The following diagram illustrates an invalid request example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following diagram illustrates an invalid request:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
